Let's talk about the answers to the discounted cash flow exercise and I really want you to play around
with the numbers here OK.
I want to change numbers on all of these tabs here.
Change the assumptions here as well.
Here here everywhere.
And I really want you understand how all these tabs worked together and how all these different metrics
can change a target price and Keth.
Please learn to read financial statements like a good book and I know it sounds a little crazy but I
just want you to understand this and not memorize never memorize accounting or finance.
Please just understand it and then you'll remember.
OK.
Let's kick it off with this box here.
We hit shift select delete. Oop and free cash flow is always just pulled off the cash flow statement
right.
It's a simple calculation so take command and open in square brackets and then boom your linked here
.
And then basically just double click and it's operating cash flow minus cap X. That's what free cash
flow is.
Right it's a simple calculation down here.
But I don't want to just memorize this I want to really understand what it means.
OK.
So let's look at it this way.
So let's say that you are a company and you make a bunch of money put the money in your pocket the end
of the year and then you want to invest in yourself.
Right.
So you'll invest.
And so what cash you have left over now.
Well it's lever money I made during the year minus the money I use to what was left over to invest myself
and from a company perspective all it is is this operating cash flow minus the amount of money that
we invested or reinvest in the company.
And that's basically equipment CapEx.
Right so operating cash flow modest cap ex is free cash flow and you might ask.
Well Chris I don't understand why don't you just use net income minus what we invested.
Well recall from our early exercise is that your net income is not really cash you have in your pocket
.
Right.
You take when you create a cash flow statement.
You basically start with that income and you add back all the non-cash stuff from your other financial
statements like depreciation which isn't money or your pocket.
Right.
You know that's how we get free cash flow.
And again play around the numbers see what happens.
Let's let's try actually for fun let's just say I went to the revenue tab and for whatever reason I'm
going to delete all these lines here.
Massive product recall.
Right.
Let's see what happens.
It flows through here.
Earnings get hit hard.
Right.
Cash flow statement off obviously gets hit as well.
And let's see what happens.
Free cash flow.
OK.
So free cash flow is now 1 3 3 1 for that year and he controls it and do what we just did.
All right.
Just go back and see how it's higher.
1 4 6 6 so clear out the numbers right and we can even do that again right when we go back here and
get rid of that.
Right.
And what happens is our target price down here.
It comes.
Twenty bucks.
Right.
But if I can do it go back.
Price is 22 bucks right.
And you might say well wait a sec I don't understand that's you delete all revenue or part of revenue
enterprise like Only 2 bucks.
Well it did because this revenue line here is pretty small as a percentage of revenue.
Right so only 5 percent of revenue.
Right.
This guy here this line is 95 percent revenue anyway you get the idea.
I want to play around with this a lot.
When can you even use this as a template for yourself when you create your own models right.
Remember every model is different because every model has different number revenue line items in the
way the revenue is always different.
You know you get the idea just play around with this model a lot please.
So let's calculate what the interest rate is we're going to use or discount rate or Waks same thing
to take all of these future cash flows into today's terms.
Remember that we will get the benefit of having that much cash today because of interest rates we have
to discount it a bunch years to today and the same with this one this one.
Let's calculate the whac Remember hit the shift button and hold it down the whole time and hit delete
.
Otherwise it's tricky to get those things off.
OK so the cost of capital for us is going to be a function of well how much equity do we have how much
that we have right.
And then we'll get the percent of debt that we have in our capital structure times the costs of that
plus the percent of equity we have in our capital structure has a cost equity.
And that's our blended weighted average cost of capital.
Okay cool.
So the market cap today is 10000 just Except that that's a given the stock price today is eight fifty
eight.
It's just the market cap divided by the number of shares and you might say we said what if I change
number of shares.
Let's say we have a lot of cash on our balance sheet we're like heck what do we do that cashless buy
some shares.
What happens to the stock price today.
So watch that.
858 Let's see what happens when we go down here.
It's I don't know let's just say I changed this to a thousand shares to let's be crazy and do it everywhere
so we bought 1000.
We bought back one thousand we bought back 165 shares.
We'll see what happens to our price.
Is it still eight sixty five or what it was.
See here now it's 10 bucks.
Is that cool.
So if you buy back shares say company has excess cash right on the balance sheet.
When we do that I don't know when or invest anymore.
Preplan equip and we already have all the stuff we need.
Heck we all own shares in the company and our investors would love us if we buy back shares.
Right.
Let's do it again let's say that we have a crazy amount of cash and we buy back a ton of shares and
now we're actually at 500 shares.
Wow buybacks just a ton to go here.
Wow.
That's right.
We cut the number of shares in half from a thousand to 500.
And of course the stock price doubles.
And do you do again.
There we go and when we're there you are back to normal.
OK.
So back to 858.
And and that's where I mean just really play around this model a lot please because again I really want
to understand how all this stuff works together.
So most of our capital structure is equity only a little bit of debt right you know like.
Well Chris how do you calculate that.
Well the capital structure is a function of equity plus debt.
Right.
And so if we go here to our balance sheet right memory this is just a measure of what we have and who
owns our stuff in and we just take a look here.
I mean assuming that it makes it easier to read for all of us.
Okay.
So let's just pick a quarter here.
So we have five bucks in short term debt and five bucks long term debt.
Right.
That's how much that we have.
Right but remember capital structure is a function of that plus equity or liabilities puts equity.
Same thing.
So 5 plus 5 is our debt.
And our equity is that.
Okay.
While we get that we have way more equity than we have that actually we have close to 90 percent of
our entire capital structure is equity right.
And about 2 percent or 1.7 to be exact.
Is that right.
This just five miles wide wide by that plus 10.
Okay.
So let's look at the math here.
All right so it's the capital structure.
So figure that out.
Ignore this guy for now and this formula you see here is just equity which we talked about in the previous
page which was over 500 bucks divided by short term that long term that plus equity and by the same
token here or this guy for now.
Right.
Focus on the percent your balance sheet.
What percent of your capital structure is debt and it's short term debt plus long term debt divided
by 400 at post-launch or debt plus equity.
Right.
Which is about 2 percent.
And again with all these numbers right now you have everything.
OK.
So we know the percent so the percent that's equity is about 98 percent and its debt is about 2 percent
.
OK.
So we understand the process has the capital structure hey don't memorize this stuff please understand
it remember learning to read financial statements.
Good luck.
All right so we take C40 one right.
That's our cost of equity.
Right.
And then our costs of that's from below as well.
So let's let's start with equity.
Right.
What does that cost of equity there.
See 41.
How do we calculate the cost of equity.
OK.
So what happens is the amount the cost of equity to us is simply a function of this.
What's the lowest interest rate on the planet basically.
Right.
It's the government interest rate because the government is less likely to go belly up than my company
here to.
OK.
All right.
So if I have to calculate my cost of equity I'll start with the government rate which we call the risk
free rate because it's almost risk free because if the government goes belly up then the new world.
The last couple billion.
And then we add back the additional stuff that's going to account for how much more risk there is to
invest in US versus the government.
Right.
Or the lowest risk free rate.
So how do we calculate that.
Well all right.
So are companies on the stock market.
Right.
And I guess that all companies in general if you just ignore beta for now all companies in general you
take the stock market turn minus that risk free rate and that's I guess it's with a general return would
be I guess.
Right.
All right.
I don't understand this well.
Our Ada we're more volatile than the government is right.
So we should put in more risk for owning our stock.
OK I get it.
So Bayda is basically this.
And we talked about this earlier the beta of the stock market is basically one.
OK.
It looks they know it's a nice healthy looking charge whatever.
It's not that volatile.
It's one.
OK.
And it just means the rise over the run or volatility.
And let's not get involved with the calculus.
And so the beat of our company because our company is riskier than the stock market index.
It's riskier than the S&P 500 for example or the footsie or the DAX or whatever are the topics whatever
indexes you cover.
All right so our beta is too which means that our stock is 100 percent more volatile than the market
.
Right.
And you can go to Yahoo Finance and get paid is for different companies too.
OK.
So it is to great Amber assuming the average stock return is eight and a half percent over time just
accept that.
Don't worry about the logic there and then assume the risk free rate or the lowest rate out there is
about 2 percent which is you know interest rate plus inflation.
Just accept it.
I've seen people use one at least three whatever interest rates will never be this low gain for the
rest of our lives so many years from now when you're doing this exercise you know or create your own
models.
The mystery will be a lot higher.
And by having interest rates really low what the government's basically saying is please invest in stuff
you know invest in the stock market buy real estate.
And that way the stock market is up a bunch because rates are low when rates are high.
People say I'm not going to invest in the stock market I'm going to buy that and buy bonds.
OK.
So let's get into this.
This is tricky will nym shift and then delete.
I still get that.
All right cool.
So all we're doing here is the cost of equity is just the risk free rate right there.
Plus the bad which is to right times whenever the stock market returns is going to be minus the risk
free rate.
And that is fourteen point five that's a high rate because we're a risky company.
Check this out.
Let's say that we were lower risk right lower risk company.
So instead of being a Tesla for example which is a great growth stock we're now I don't know General
Electric or Verizon where you know a higher interest or higher dividend yield company that's low risk
.
If we pretend our bid is one what happens is the rate that our rate goes from 14 percent down to eight
and a half percent.
Right.
Risk has a lot to do with the rate you're supposed to pay right for equity.
So watch this.
If our target price just accept this for now get here a second is 22 bucks right.
Watch what happens if I make it a one.
OK.
If the risk is lower to invest in our company watch your habits.
Our target price goes up enormously.
It's a big deal.
OK.
Let's play the game let's say that we were half of all tell the market which almost never happens.
Both you say that you're right that kills the low risk company.
Right.
Made Of One 90 buck target price and believable and then try here and you'll never see beta is higher
let's say a Beta's for though right.
Never seen that high to that.
That means our stock is basically fully valued right now.
OK.
You know let's just stick with this 14 percent is the cost of equity right now.
But Chris why is it lower here.
Because 98 percent of our capital structure roughly is equity.
So you take that times the percent of our capital structure equity and you get that.
OK.
We're to talk about that in a second.
So just remember you know this guy for here for now think the percent of the capital structure it's
that times whatever rate you come up with.
OK.
And we have a tiny tiny percent of our capital structure that's debt right.
So let's go here.
What is the cost of debt.
This one.
All right.
So the cost of debt is basically a function of whatever the bank is going to charge you to get a loan
OK times one minus the tax rate.
And for simplicity let's just assume the tax rates 33 percent.
Right.
OK.
So what happens are costs debts really not 5 percent it's 3.4 percent because the government says Hey
let me give you a tax incentive.
Right.
Whatever interest you pay on debt you can deduct.
It's just meant.
So let's say Here let's say Well we're a higher risk company.
No one's going to give us a 5 percent.
Right.
Let's say that we're.
Don't know we get like a junk bond rate that junk bond basically means a high rate right for a debt
instrument.
Right we're a high risk company.
Let's say it's 20 percent.
And dude I remember in the early 80s when my dad was paying a 20 percent mortgage on his house in Canada
rates were high then that.
So our cost of debt goes up a lot obviously because look at that our debt now is 20 percent that's just
given us wherever the banks can lend you.
Right.
You're like why is that percent here.
Well because the tax rate.
So what if we took the tax rate and we made it say we're in an awful recession the government decides
let's cut rates to 10 percent which should never happen.
Whatever happens at our cost of debt goes to 18 percent.
You like i understand why would he go up if rates are lower.
Right.
Well what happens is if tax rates are lower.
And you can't deduct as much.
I know it's a weird complex relationship but let's go back here to five.
Right.
So 3.4 percent is what it's going to cost us for debt.
So let's go here and you're like Well Chris I thought was three point four percent down here.
What happened.
Well it's 3.4 percent times the percent of our capital structure which is debt.
Remember when you have like five bucks a short term debt and five bucks long term debt which is 10 divided
by the total capital structure.
So we've got like 1.7 or about 2 percent or so of our capital structure in debt.
So you take 2 percent or 1.7 whatever it is times that and are actually the cost here blended with our
capital structure is only you know point 0 5 7 3 percent some three point four.
All right good.
So now we've got the blended cost of capital for us.
Our interest rate for our company or discount rate or Waks same thing average cost capital right as
a capital we have of it and we've got fourteen point three one is our cost of capital.
Okay.
So we understand how we got our interest rate.
And the reason we have this interest rate is because you can't just add up all these cash flows.
It's not fair that we get that amount today factored into our valuation.
Right we got to discount that over a number of years.
Right.
So what do we discount that well we just calculate the whac.
The discount rate.
All right let's go through this.
All right cool.
Now the way to discount all of these cash flows right after this cat this once misleader is to use net
present value or discounted cash flow analysis.
Cool so we've got a weighted average cost of capital it's fourteen point three.
So let's figure out what these guys here are valued today because again you can't get that money today
.
Right.
Not fair you can't say well are going to make that money so I shove it today and that's my valuation
so because of the interest rates have to deduct it over time.
Right.
So basically the present value that I should say.
Let's do that.
So let's click here.
We you get at shift shift click take my finger off shift the elites got a haircut.
So what is the net present value of all those cash flows today.
Well watch this.
If I just add up all these cash flows here righteous mouseover the value is nine thousand one hundred
eighty one.
Right.
That's about you.
And so you can't take the value because we got a whack and interest rate of the debt amount. Alright
.
So let's do that.
So watch this.
If I were to this is just not present by which is the rate and then all the cash flows.
I love Excel.
Basically you're overstating that stuff just click here and Excel will kind of explain it to you and
if this is kind of boring to me whatever.
Just go to YouTube and do a search on MPB Excel.
All right.
So sounds awesome.
So you type in the formula and all the stuff drops down.
So watch this.
Hit it from scratch and leave it equals and the fee it's in the game.
OK open brackets.
And then it tells you get the rate you like what's read.
You can click they're supposed to tell you what it is or a definition what you do is you go up here
you know like OK my rate was this right.
And then it's telling you put a comma.
So either you like helping at them and saying OK go get the values of those cash flows OK go here and
you highlight the mall boom done.
So those free cash flow numbers are worth that much today.
Using the rates you DoubleClick it and excels awesome . See its Color coded very cool